3.1 release notes (#1067)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/releases/ez_platform_v3.1.md

or whole Content items for completeness at other stages of the editing process.

### Search

#### ezplatform-search

[`ezplatform-search`](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-search) is a new repository
that contains search functionalities that are not dependent on the search engine

#### Search controller

A customizable search controller has been extracted and placed in `ezplatform-search`.

#### Searching in trash

You can now search through the contents of Trash and sort the search results based on a number of Search Criteria and Sort Clauses that can be used by the `\eZ\Publish\API\Repository\TrashService::findTrashItems` method only.

For more information, see [Searching in trash](../api/public_php_api_search.md#searching-in-trash).

### Repository filtering

[Repository filtering](../api/public_php_api_search.md#repository-filtering) enables you to filter content and Locations using a defined Filter,
without the `SearchService`.

### PermissionResolver

You can now have a Service that provides both `PermissionResolver` and `PermissionCriterionResolver` by injecting `eZ\Publish\API\Repository\PermissionService`.

## Behavior changes

### Landing Page drafts

> When you start editing a Landing Page, a new draft is now automatically created.

Reviewer: `editing` or `creating`?

> When you start editing a Landing Page, a new draft is now automatically created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you start creating a Landing Page, a new draft is now automatically created.
```

For more information about URL management, see [URL management](../guide/url_management.md) in the developer documentation.

### Tree view in the Universal Discovery Widget

The Universal Discovery Widget, referred to as the Content Browser in User Documentation, has been updated by adding the Tree view.
You can now switch between the Grid, Panels and Tree views to browse and manage user accounts, media files, content items and forms.
Selections that you make in one view survive when you switch to the other view.

![Tree view in the Content Browser](img/3_1_Content_browser_Tree_view.png "Tree view in Content Browser")

For more information about configuring the Universal Discovery Widget, see [URL management](../extending/extending_udw.md) in the developer documentation.

### Field group display

Display of Field groups has been improved in content preview and editing.

When editing, Field groups are now presented in tabs:

![Field group tabls in Content editing](img/3.1_collapsible_fields_edit.png)

In Content preview, the group sections are collapsible:

![Collapsible Field groups in Content view](img/3.1_collapsible_fields.png)

### Saving incomplete draft

> As of this release, when users create or edit a Content item or a Page, they can save it without completing all the required fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When users create or edit a Content item or a Page, they can now save it without completing all the required fields.
```

They can then return to editing, or pass the content to another contributor.
Validation that used to happen at each save operation now, by default, happens when you click the **Publish** button.

> Also, as part of this feature, the `ContentService::validate()` method has been added that you can use to trigger validation of individual fields 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ContentService::validate()` method has been added that you can use to trigger validation of individual fields 
```

or whole Content items for completeness at other stages of the editing process.

### Search

#### ezplatform-search

[`ezplatform-search`](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-search) is a new repository

> that contains search functionalities that are not dependent on the search engine

Author: ```suggestion
that contains search functionalities that are not dependent on the search engine.
```

# eZ Platform v3.1

**Version number**: v3.1

**Release date**: June XX, 2020

**Release type**: Fast Track

## Overview

## Notable changes

### URL management UI

You can now manage URL addresses and URL wildcards with a comfortable user interface that is available in the Back Office. You can create, modify and delete URL wildcards, as well as decide if the user should be redirected to the new address on clicking the link.

!!! note

> As of this release, the Link manager is no longer part of the Content panel, and now it belongs to the Admin panel of the Back Office.

Author: ```suggestion
  As of this release, the Link manager is no longer part of the Content panel, and now it belongs to the Admin panel of the Back Office.
```

For more information about URL management, see [URL management](../guide/url_management.md) in the developer documentation.

### Tree view in the Universal Discovery Widget

The Universal Discovery Widget, referred to as the Content Browser in User Documentation, has been updated by adding the Tree view.
You can now switch between the Grid, Panels and Tree views to browse and manage user accounts, media files, content items and forms.
Selections that you make in one view survive when you switch to the other view.

![Tree view in the Content Browser](img/3_1_Content_browser_Tree_view.png "Tree view in Content Browser")

For more information about configuring the Universal Discovery Widget, see [URL management](../extending/extending_udw.md) in the developer documentation.

### Saving incomplete draft

As of this release, when users create or edit a Content item or a Page, they can save it without completing all the required fields.
They can then return to editing, or pass the content to another contributor.
Validation that used to happen at each save operation now, by default, happens when you click the **Publish** button.

> Also, as part of this feature, the `ContentService::validate()` method has been added that you can use to trigger validation of individual fields or whole Content items for completeness at other stages of the workflow.

Author: ```suggestion
Also, as part of this feature, the `ContentService::validate()` method has been added that you can use to trigger validation of individual fields 
or whole Content items for completeness at other stages of the editing process.
```
